Prerequisites
Before setting up the system, ensure that you have the following installed:

Python 3.6+
Pip (Python package installer)
If Python is not installed, you can download it from the official Python website: https://www.python.org/downloads/.

Step 1: Clone the Repository
Clone the project repository to your local machine using Git. Open your terminal or command prompt and run the following command:

bash
Copy
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Emotion-Recognition-System.git
cd Emotion-Recognition-System
Replace yourusername with your actual GitHub username.

Step 2: Install Dependencies
Install the required Python libraries using pip. Run the following command in your terminal:

bash
Copy
pip install -r requirements.txt
This will install the necessary libraries such as TensorFlow, OpenCV, Keras, Numpy, and others required to run the system.

Step 3: Download the Pre-trained Model
If you don't have the pre-trained model (emotion_model.h5), you can download it from the source or use an alternative model. Place the emotion_model.h5 file inside the model/ directory of the project.

Note: You can train your own model using datasets like FER-2013 or AffectNet, but for simplicity, this repository assumes you already have the model.

Step 4: Run the Emotion Recognition System
Now you're ready to run the emotion recognition system. Open your terminal and use the following command:

bash
Copy
python app.py
The system will open your webcam, detect faces, and display the predicted emotions in real time.

Step 5: Use the System
Once you run the application, it will start detecting faces and emotions in real-time.
The emotions will be displayed next to the faces on your screen.
Press ESC to close the application.
Model Details
The pre-trained model used in this project is trained on the FER-2013 dataset.
The model recognizes the following emotions:
Anger
Disgust
Fear
Happiness
Sadness
Surprise
Neutral
If you wish to use a custom-trained model, replace the emotion_model.h5 file in the model/ folder with your custom model.

Optional: Training Your Own Model
If you'd like to train your own emotion recognition model, you can use datasets such as FER-2013, AffectNet, or CK+. You can find tutorials online for training emotion recognition models with Keras and TensorFlow.

Troubleshooting
OpenCV errors: Make sure your webcam is connected properly and accessible by OpenCV.
TensorFlow/Keras errors: Ensure you have the correct Python and library versions. You can create a virtual environment to avoid version conflicts.
License:
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

